---
use_math: true
layout: post
title:  "스콧 애론슨의 조언들"
date:   2022-05-11-23-00
categories: 정신_차리기
---
[Quora Session with Scott Aaronson](https://quorasessionwithscottaaronson.quora.com/)에서 인상 깊은 질문 및 답변을 번역 없이 옮긴다.

## What are Scott Aaronson's recommendations for the undergraduates that are interested in Complexity Theory and Quantum Computing?

Uhh … always … remember … to check your references, and may the force be with you!

More seriously: Read voraciously, including biographies of mathematicians and physicists, and Wikipedia articles and blog posts (and Quora questions!) about weird math topics. Make up funny recreational questions (a random example: why are conserved quantities in physics proportional to velocity or velocity squared, but never velocity cubed?), then stay up late at night, with pen and paper, trying to solve them. Seek out whatever undergrads at your university have the same obsessions you do; befriend them and share favorite problems with them. Take whatever theoretical CS courses your university offers, and the most interesting math courses. Talk to your professors outside of class. (They actually enjoy it if a student comes by to discuss something intellectual, rather than their grade. And if they’re too busy, just keep nudging them; they won’t be offended.) Do an independent study in the field (if the *Slate* columnist Rebecca Schuman hasn’t yet [succeeded in banning them](https://slate.com/human-interest/2016/04/ban-the-independent-study.html)). Instead of asking professors to give you a problem, try to come with your own problems. Even if your problems turn out to be already solved, or too vague, or too hard, or whatever, professors will be impressed that you’ve already making the transition to a *researcher*—-i.e., someone who explores rather than just doing what they’re told.

Check the quant-ph arXiv five nights per week. Check ECCC. Check MathOverflow and CS StackExchange. Look at the STOC/FOCS/CCC accepted paper lists. If you don’t know what I’m talking about, find out what I’m talking about. Pick the papers that jump out at you and read them. If you have questions, work hard to answer them yourself. If you can’t, email the authors. Be brazen about emailing experts with interesting research questions. Again, they’ll often be pleasantly surprised to get a serious, focused intellectual inquiry from a student, rather than “WHAT GPA DO I NEED TO JOIN YOUR GROUP?” Don’t worry if they don’t respond; it just means your email got lost in the pile, not that they hate you. Email them again, or email someone else.

What else? Do summer internships or research assistantships. Maybe your professors can offer you those, or can help you find them; otherwise, email people to ask. The more you can talk specifically about the research of the person you’re asking for an internship, the more impressed they’ll be. Make sure that, when it comes time to apply for grad school, you have a posse of well-known experts ready to write you outstanding recommendation letters—-that matters **way** more than GPA and GREs and the other things undergrads obsess about. Write a personal statement that, once again, is filled with concrete examples of research problems that you’ve thought about or invented yourself. Explain who you might want to work with at the graduate program you’re applying to, and why. Demonstrate deep familiarity with those people’s research. Skip the part about how you dreamed of becoming a scientist since the age of 5 because you wanted to save the world and journey to the stars (yeah, so did we all).

This is not advice for having an exciting, well-rounded social life as an undergrad (you’re on your own for that :-) ), but I’m pretty sure it works for becoming a computational complexity or quantum computing researcher (or with minor modifications, probably, a researcher in most other fields).

## What's your advice to someone beginning his/her PhD in Theoretical Computer Science?

Take charge. Don’t wait for your adviser or anyone else to hand you a problem to work on. They might, but in the meantime, invent your own problems, and pick them up from papers and blogs and friends and lectures, driven by your thirst to know and prove. Don’t obey your adviser; astound your adviser. Go to conference after conference, STOC after Dagstuhl after Banff, like a hungry coyote on the prowl—-hungry for open problems to solve and for collaborators who know how to solve your problems. Get used to the sun rising in the window as you struggle with LaTeX packages or hunt for a new notebook after you filled your old one, smearing blue ink on your palms. At some point, go out, treat yourself to a large breakfast, then get a good day’s sleep, since there’s probably another long night ahead. (Did you remember to check when the conference submission deadline was?)

Understand: for the entire rest of your life, people will be badgering you with emails. You’ll spend more than half of every day answering those emails, and still they’ll never stop. From morning to night—-and that’s what it will be, since you’ll no longer get to pull all-nighters, ever—-you’ll be dealing with your mortgage, grocery shopping, your kid’s daycare, students unhappy about their exam grade, program committee chairs yelling that your referee report is overdue, grant officers yelling that your quarterly progress report is overdue, book editors yelling that your chapter is overdue, travel reimbursements, journalists who need you to repeat the same tired quote for a pop-science article, etc. You’ll typically have zero hours per day—-as in none, zero—-to devote to research. Nobody will be in charge, making sure you still have those hours—-*you* certainly won’t—-so why would they remain in your day? And even when you do have free time, you’ll be so stressed and tired that you just want to nap on the sofa or browse social media, not think about research, which requires endless weeks of no other responsibilities to get into the groove of.

This is *assuming* that you don’t also have a blog or other public presence. :-)

What does this all mean? It means that grad school, together with your postdoc, are your time to leap for the moon. It’s not preparation for anything else; it’s *the* thing that you’ve been preparing for. This is when there’s a very good chance that you’ll think many of your most original thoughts and do much of your most important work. So, if you wanted there to be *one* time in your life when you’d let nothing get between you and the Eternal, when you wanted your theorem-proving efforts to follow the Kipling model—-

> If you can force your heart and nerve and sinew
>
> To serve your turn long after they are gone,
>
> And so hold on when there is nothing in you
>
> Except the Will which says to them: ‘Hold on!’ …

—-let this be the time.

Also, remember to have fun!

## 